#### Catalog

- [1. Overview](#1__2)
- [2. Objects are dead](#2__17)
- [2.1 Reference Counting Algorithm (code doesn't run)](#21__23)
  - [2.2 The reachability analysis algorithm](#22__75)
  - [2.3 More on references](#23__109)
  - [2.4 Survival and death](#24__147)
  - [2.5 Recycling method area](#25__225)
- [3. Garbage collection algorithms] (#3__245)
- [3.1 Theory of generational collection](#31__253)
  - [3.2 Tagging - Purge Algorithm](#32____283)
  - [3.3 Marking - Copying Algorithm](#33____313)
  - [3.4 Marker - Organize algorithm](#34____341)
  - [Whether to move surviving recycled objects](#_356)
- [4. Detailed implementation of HotSpot's algorithm](#4_HotSpot__380)
- [4.1 Root node enumeration](#41__382)
  - [4.2 Safe spots](#42__388)
  - [4.3 Security zones](#43__392)
  - [4.4 Memory sets and card tables](#44__396)
  - [4.5 Write barriers](#45__400)
  - [4.6 Concurrent reachability analysis] (#46__404)
- [5. Classical garbage collectors](#5__408)
- [5.1 Serial collector](#51_Serial__410)
  - [5.2 ParNew collector](#52_ParNew__427)
  - [5.3 Parallel Scavenge Collector](#53_Parallel_Scavenge__443)
  - [5.4 Serial Old Collector](#54_Serial_Old__463)
  - [5.5 Parallel Old collector](#55_Parallel_Old__472)
  - [5.6 CMS Collector](#56_CMS__480)
  - [5.7 Garbage First collector](#57_Garbage_First__524)
- [6. Low-latency garbage collector](#6__564)
- [6.1 Shenandoah collector](#61_Shenandoah__582)
  - [6.2 ZGC Collector](#62_ZGC__643)
  - [Reasons why pointers can store extra information](#_738)
  - [Reasons why the Java VM can redefine pointers in memory (P116) (late addition)](#Java_P116_756)
- [7. Choosing the right garbage collector](#7__762)
- [7.1 Epsilon collectors](#71_Epsilon__764)
  - [7.2 Collector tradeoffs](#72__768)
  - [7.3 Virtual machine and garbage collector logging](#73__772)
  - [7.4 Garbage collector parameter summarization](#74__776)

## 1. Overview

- **Garbage Collection (GC)
- Program Counters, Virtual Machine Stacks, Local Method Stacks
  - How much memory is allocated to each stack frame is essentially known when the class structure is finalized.
  - Memory allocation and reclamation in these areas is deterministic.
  - Memory is allocated and reclaimed deterministically in these areas when the method ends or the process ends.
- Java heap, method area
  - Multiple implementations of an interface may require different amounts of memory.
  - Different conditional branches of a method may require different amounts of memory.
  - The only way to know exactly what and how many objects a program will create is to know when it is running.
  - This portion of memory is allocated and reclaimed dynamically.

## The allocation and reclamation of this memory is dynamic.

- The first thing the garbage collector does before reclaiming the heap is to determine which of these objects are "alive" and which are "dead" (objects that can no longer be used in any way).

### 2.1 Reference Counting Algorithm (code doesn't run)

- Reference Counting

  - Takes up some extra memory space for counting
  - The principle is simple and determines high efficiency
- Implementation:

  - Add a reference counter to the object.
    - Add a reference counter to the object and add 1 every time it is referenced somewhere.
    - When a reference is invalid, the counter is reduced by 1.
  - When a reference fails, the counter is decremented by 1. An object that has a counter of 0 at any given moment is no longer usable.
- Reasons why mainstream Java VMs do not use this algorithm for memory management

  - Must be accompanied by a lot of extra processing to make it work correctly

    - Reference counting alone makes it difficult to solve the problem of circular references between objects.

    ```java
    /**
     * @author BlackOrnate
     */
    public class JVM_Test {
        public Object instance = null;

        private static final int value = 1024 * 1024;

        private byte[] bigSize = new byte[2 * value];

        public static void main(String[] args) {
            JVM_Test objA = new JVM_Test();
            JVM_Test objB = new JVM_Test();

            objA.instance = objB;
            objB.instance = objA;

            objA = null;
            objB = null;

            System.gc();
        }
    }
    ```

### 2.2 Algorithms for Accessibility Analysis

- __*Reachability Analysis

  - A set of root objects called "GC Roots" is used as the starting node set, and from these nodes, a search is performed downward according to the reference relationship, and the paths traveled during the search process are called "Reference Chain", which is a set of nodes called "GC Roots". If there is no reference chain connecting an object to the GC Roots, then it is impossible to reuse the object.

    ! [Reachability Analysis Algorithm](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/0bd6cbf4656eb35c2c6aae08ef27f033.jpeg#pic_center)

    Objects object 5, object 6, and object 7 are not reachable to GC Roots even though they are related to each other, so they will be recognized as recoverable objects.
- Fixed objects that can be used as GC Roots.

  - Objects referenced in the virtual machine stack (local variable tables in stack frames).
    - Parameters, local variables, temporary variables, etc. used in the stack of methods called by each thread.
  - Objects referenced by class static attributes in the method area.
    - Static variables of Java class reference types
  - Objects referenced by constants in the method area
    - References in the String Table.
  - Objects referenced by JNI (Native methods) in the native method stack.
  - References within the Java Virtual Machine
    - Class objects corresponding to basic data types
    - Resident exception objects (NullPointException, OutOfMemoryError), etc.
    - System class loader
    - All objects held by synchronized locks.
    - JMXBean, JVMTI registered callbacks, local code caches, etc. reflecting the internal situation of the Java Virtual Machine.
- Depending on the user's garbage collector of choice and the area of memory currently being reclaimed, other objects may be added "temporarily".

### 2.3 References again

- Java's 4 reference strengths (in decreasing order)

  - Strongly Reference

    - Reference assignments that are prevalent in program code

      ```
      Object obj = new Object();
      ```
    - In any case, as long as the strong reference relationship exists, the garbage collector will never reclaim the referenced object.
  - ```
      Object obj = new Object();
      ``` Soft Reference

    - Objects that are still useful, but not necessary
    - Objects that are only linked by soft references are listed for a second reclamation before a memory overflow exception occurs.
      - If there is not enough memory in this reclaim, then a memory overflow exception will be thrown.
    - Soft references are implemented using the SoftReference class.
  - SoftReference class implements soft references.

    - Unnecessary objects, but weaker than soft references, can only survive until the next garbage collection.
    - When the garbage collection starts, no matter whether there is enough memory or not, it will recycle the objects that are only associated with weak references.
    - Weak references are implemented using the WeakReference class.
  - Phantom Reference

    - Whether an object has a phantom reference or not has no effect on its lifetime at all, and it is not possible to obtain an instance of an object through a phantom reference.
    - The only purpose of having a dummy reference associated with an object is to receive a system notification when the object is reclaimed by the collector.
    - Implementing Dummy References with the PhantomReference Class

### 2.4 Living and Dying

- Objects that are determined to be unreachable by the feasibility analysis algorithm are not necessarily reclaimed.
- To be truly reclaimed, it needs to go through two marking processes

  - If an object is found to have no reference chain to GC Roots after feasibility analysis, it will be **first marked** and then filtered to see if it is necessary to perform finalize() method.
    - If the object does not override the finalize() method, or if the finalize() method has already been called by the VM, then the VM treats it as "not necessary".
  - If it is necessary to execute the finalize() method, then the object will be placed in a queue called F-Queue and will have their finalize() method executed later by a low scheduling-priority Finalizer thread that is automatically created by the VM
    - Execution: The VM triggers the execution of this method, but does not necessarily wait for the method to finish running.
      - Prevents the method from running slowly or in a dead loop, causing other objects in the queue to wait permanently, or even crashing the entire memory reclamation subsystem.
  - The collector will later perform a second minor tagging of the objects in the F-Queue.
    - Untagged methods: objects need to be re-associated with any object in the reference chain

```java
/**
 * @author BlackOrnate
 */
public class JVM_Test {
    public static JVM_Test value = null;

    public void isAlive() {
        System.out.println("Alive");
    }

    @Override
    protected void finalize() throws Throwable {
        super.finalize();
        System.out.println("Finalize");
        JVM_Test.value = this;
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) throws InterruptedException {
        value = new JVM_Test();

        // 对象第一次自救
        value = null;
        System.gc();

        // 暂停0.5秒等待 Finalizer 方法执行
        Thread.sleep(500);
        if (value != null) {
            value.isAlive();
        } else {
            System.out.println("Dead");
        }

        
        // 自救失败
        value = null;
        System.gc();

        // 暂停0.5秒等待 Finalizer 方法执行
        Thread.sleep(500);
        if (value != null) {
            value.isAlive();
        } else {
            System.out.println("Dead");
        }
    }
}

/*
  结果：
  Finalize
  Alive
  Dead
 */
```

- Reasons for second self-rescue failure
  - The finalize() method of any object will only be called once automatically.
  - The finalize() method will not be executed again if the object is facing the next recycling.

### 2.5 Recycling the Method Area

- The "price/performance" ratio of method-area garbage collection is usually low.
- Method-area garbage collection recycles two main components

  - Deprecated constants
    - Constants in the constant pool that are not referenced by any object and that the garbage collector determines are necessary.
    - Symbolic references to other classes (interfaces), methods, and fields in the constant pool.
  - Types no longer in use
    - Three conditions are met
      - All instances of the class have been reclaimed
        - No instances of the class or any of its derived classes exist in the Java heap.
      - The class loader that loaded the class has been recycled.
      - The java.lang.Class object corresponding to the class is not referenced anywhere, and the methods of the class cannot be accessed anywhere through reflection.
    - The Java Virtual Machine **is allowed** to recycle useless classes that satisfy the three conditions of the appeal.

## 3. Garbage collection algorithm

- Garbage collection algorithms
  - Reference Counting GC (direct garbage collection) **.
  - Tracing GC (indirect garbage collection)

### 3.1 Theory of generational collection

- Generational Collection
- There are two generational hypotheses built on

  - Weak Generational Hypothesis **: Most objects rise and fall.
  - **Strong Generational Hypothesis**: Objects that survive more garbage collection processes are less likely to die.
- These two hypotheses establish a consistent design principle for many common garbage collectors

  - The collector should divide the Java heap into different regions, and then assign recycled objects to be stored in different regions based on their age (the number of times the object has survived the garbage collection process).
    - If most of the objects in a region are too old to survive the garbage collection process, you can reclaim a lot of space at a low cost by focusing on keeping a small number of objects alive each time you reclaim them instead of marking a large number of objects for reclamation.
    - A region is full of objects that are hard to kill, and the virtual machine can reclaim them less frequently.
- The Java heap is divided into 2 regions

  - The Young Generation.
    - A large number of objects are found dead at each garbage collection, and the few that survive each collection are gradually promoted to the Old Generation for storage
  - Old Generation
- For the 3rd rule added to the theory of generational collection

  - **Intergenerational Reference Hypothesis**: intergenerational references are rare compared to through references
- Implicit corollary: two objects in a referential relationship with each other should tend to live or die at the same time
- A global data structure (Remembered Set) built on the new generation, which divides the old generation into chunks and identifies which chunks of memory in the old generation will have intergenerational references.

### 3.2 Mark - Clear Algorithm

- Mark - Sweep

  - Mark

    - Marks all objects for recycling / Marks all surviving objects.
  - Mark - Sweep

    - Uniformly recycle all tagged objects / Uniformly recycle all untagged objects
- Main drawbacks

  - Unstable execution efficiency
    - If the Java heap contains a large number of objects, most of which need to be reclaimed, a large number of tagging and clearing operations must be performed.
    - As a result, the execution efficiency of both marking and clearing processes decreases as the number of objects grows.
  - Fragmentation of memory space
    - Marking and clearing creates a large number of discontinuous memory fragments.
    - Excessive space fragmentation may result in the need to trigger another garbage collection action when the program needs to allocate larger objects in the future.

The [Mark-Purge Algorithm [Mark-Purge Algorithm](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/917cf7c96177900d5328d0a615cfe4ca.jpeg#pic_center)

### 3.3 Tagging - Copying Algorithm

- Mark - Copy

  - Dividing the available memory into two equal sized chunks and using only one of them at a time.
  - When this block runs out, the living objects are copied to the other block, and then the used memory space is cleaned up in one go.
- Each time the memory is reclaimed for the whole half of the area, so when allocating memory, you don't have to consider the complexity of space fragmentation, just move the pointer to the top of the heap and allocate it in order.
- Main drawbacks

  - The main disadvantage is that it reduces the available memory to half of its original size.
- Reclaiming new generations with this algorithm

! [Marker - Copy Algorithm](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/6cb736bdb7bdc937eebd15a42dc4f23f.jpeg#pic_center)

### 3.4 Tagging - Collation Algorithm

- Mark - Compact
  - Mark
    - Same as "Mark - Clear" algorithm.
  - Compacting
    - Move all living objects to one end of the memory space, then clean up the memory directly outside the boundary

! [Mark - Collate algorithm](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/8c97e61a391cef26bb441528a8cab96e.jpeg#pic_center)

### Whether or not to move the surviving objects after reclamation

- Marker - Clearing Algorithm: Non-moving Recycling Algorithm
- Marker - Organizer: mobile recycling algorithm
- Moving surviving objects

  - In the old days, when there was a large number of objects living in each recovery, moving the living objects and updating all references to them would have been an extremely burdensome operation.
  - The user application must be paused for the entire time to perform such an object move
    - **Stop The World**
- Do not move live objects

  - The space fragmentation caused by living objects spread across the heap can only be solved by more complex memory allocators and memory accessors.
- Garbage collection downtime

  - Without moving objects, the pause time is much shorter, or even eliminates the need to pause
- Throughput of the whole program (sum of the efficiency of the Mutator and the collector using garbage collection)

  - Moving objects is more cost-effective
  - Not moving objects makes the collector more efficient, but the total throughput is still reduced because memory allocations and accesses are much more frequent than garbage collection

## 4. Detailed implementation of HotSpot's algorithm.

## 4.1 Root Node Enumeration

### 4.2 Security points

### 4.3 Security zones

### 4.4 Memory sets and card tables

### 4.5 Write barriers

### 4.6 Concurrent reachability analysis

## 5. Classical Garbage Collectors

## 5.1 Serial collectors

- Single-Threaded Collectors
  - Single-threaded
    - Only one processor or collection thread is used for garbage collection.
    - While garbage collection is in progress, all other worker threads must be suspended until collection is complete.
      - **Stop The World**: (3.4)

! [Serial Collector](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/c87ae3a27ac5f6e7ce4232fa3cfff6d4.jpeg#pic_center)

- Advantages
  - Simple and efficient, for memory constrained environments, it has the smallest additional Memory Footprint of any collector.
  - For single-processor or low-core environments, the Serial collector naturally achieves the highest single-threaded collection efficiency by focusing on incoming and outgoing collection, since there is no thread interaction overhead.

### 5.2 ParNew Collector

- A multithreaded parallel version of the Serial collector.
  - Uses multiple threads for garbage collection at the same time.
  - The rest of the behavior is identical to the Serial collector.
    - Control parameters
    - Collection Algorithm
    - Stop The World
    - Object allocation rules
    - Recycling strategy

! [ParNew Collector](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/9397f293f13be55227db180242980f87.jpeg#pic_center)

### 5.3 Parallel Scavenge Collector

- Parallel collection multithreaded collector. Marker - Replication Algorithm
- Features

  - Achieves a controlled **Throughput**

    - Throughput: the ratio of the time the processor spends running user code to the total time consumed by the processor

      Throughput
      =
      Time running user code
      Running User Code Time
      +
      Time to run garbage collection
      $$
      吞吐量 = \frac{运行用户代码时间}{运行用户代码时间 + 运行垃圾收集时间}
      $$
- The shorter the pause time, the more suitable for programs that need to interact with the user or need to ensure the corresponding quality of service, a good response time can improve the user experience.
- High throughput allows the most efficient use of processor resources to complete the program's computing tasks as quickly as possible.

### 5.4 Serial Old Collector

- Single-threaded collector, mark-organize algorithm.

! [Serial Old Collector](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/d6ebc3a700e7c6de8f7551fe1e810fa2.jpeg#pic_center)

### 5.5 Parallel Old Collector

- Multi-threaded concurrent collection, tagging - sorting algorithm

[External image dump failed, source site may have anti-piracy mechanism, suggest to save the image and upload it directly (img-AUb3Ehph-1665192778816) (Chapter 3 Garbage Collectors and Memory Allocation Strategies.assets/Parallel Old Collector.jpg)]

### 5.6 CMS Collectors

- **CMS (Concurrent Mark Sweep)** Collector

  - Aims at obtaining the shortest recall pause time
  - Mark-Sweep Algorithm
- Workflow

  - CMS initial mark
    - Marks objects that GC Roots can directly associate with.
    - Very fast
  - CMS concurrent mark** Traverses the entire object graph from the directly associated objects of GC Roots.
    - Traverses the entire object graph starting from the objects directly associated with the GC Roots.
    - Longer time consuming
    - No need to pause user threads
    - Can run concurrently with garbage collection threads.
  - CMS remark
    - Corrects the marking record for the portion of the object whose marking was changed during concurrent marking due to the continued operation of the user program.
    - slightly longer than initial marking, much shorter than concurrent marking
  - CMS concurrent sweep** Cleans up the records of objects that have been judged to have been deleted during the concurrent marking phase.
    - Cleans up and removes objects that are judged to be dead during the marking phase.
    - Can be concurrent with user threads
- As a whole, the memory reclamation process of the CMS collector is performed concurrently with the user thread.

! [CMS Collector](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/2b6eede3ba4ba9c9ea50b05472ae6884.jpeg#pic_center)

- Advantages

  - Concurrent collection
  - Low stuttering
- Disadvantages

  - Very sensitive to processor resources
    - The default number of threads to recycle is
      Number of processor cores
      $$
      \frac{处理器核心数量 + 3}{4}
      $$
    - Takes up a portion of the threads (computing power of the processor) and causes the application to slow down
  - Floating Garbage cannot be handled, there is a possibility of Concurrent Mode Failure which can lead to another Full GC which will stop the world altogether. Stop The World" Full GC.
    - Floating Garbage: During the concurrent tagging and concurrent cleanup phases of the CMS, the user threads continue to run, and new garbage objects are created while the program is running. However, some of the garbage objects are created after the tagging process is over, and the CMS cannot dispose of them during the current collection, and can only clean them up during the next garbage collection.
  - At the end of the collection, a large amount of space debris will be generated

### 5.7 Garbage First Collector

- Garbage First (G1)

  - Garbage collector for server-side applications
- Mixed GC mode

  - Recycle any part of heap memory as a Collection Set (CSet).
  - Measurement: which block of memory holds the most amount of garbage has the greatest recovery benefit
- Workflow

  - Initial marking** The GC Roots can be directly associated with the GC Roots.
    - Marks objects that GC Roots can directly associate with, and modifies the value of the TAMS pointer to correctly allocate new objects in the available Region for the next concurrent run of user threads.
    - Stalls threads, but in a very short amount of time
  - Concurrent marking
    - Starts with GC Roots to analyze the reachability of objects in the heap, and recursively scans the entire heap map to find objects to reclaim.
    - Takes a long time
    - Can be run concurrently with user programs
    - After the scanning is completed, it needs to re-process the objects recorded by SATB that have changed references during further concurrency.
  - Final marking
    - Another short pause for the user thread.
    - for the last few SATB records that remain after the concurrency phase is over.
  - Live Data Counting and Evacuation** Updates the Region's statistics.
    - Updating Region statistics
    - Sorting the recovery value and cost for each Region.
    - Specify a recycling schedule based on the user's desired pause time.
    - Freely select any number of Regions to form a re-collection, then copy the surviving objects from the part of the Region you decide to reclaim to an empty Region, and then clean up the entire space of the old Region.
    - Suspend the user's thread, and let multiple collectors finish in parallel.
- Get the highest possible throughput with controlled latency.

! [Garbage First collector](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/8d11aa294a60a69f992acbcac891d310.jpeg#pic_center)

## 6. Low-latency garbage collectors

- Three important metrics to measure a garbage collector

  - **Memory Footprint
  - **Throughput **
  - **Latency**.
  - The three form an "impossible triangle"
  - **Latency is the most important
- Concurrency of each collector

! [Concurrency by Collector](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/7671faae8a39f1f87c90653425682426.jpeg#pic_center)

### 6.1 Shenandoah collector

- Not only does it do concurrent garbage tagging, it also does concurrent post-cleanup tidying of objects
- It differs from G1 in at least 3 significant ways

  - Support for concurrent sanitization algorithms

    - G1: recycling phase can be done in parallel with multiple threads, not concurrently with user threads.
    - Shenandoah: added below
  - Split generation collection

    - G1: use generational collection
    - Shenandoah: does not use generational collection by default
  - Memory sets

    - G1: use mnemonic sets that take a lot of memory and computational resources to maintain
    - Shenandoah: Use \*\* Connection Matrix\*\*\* global data structure to record cross-Region references.
      - Reduces memory maintenance consumption when dealing with cross-generation pointers.
      - Reduces the probability of pseudo sharing problems

! [Shenandoah Collector's Connection Matrix](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/399a61637e69aa153dad88f8368f2943.jpeg#pic_center)

- Workflow
  - **Initial Marking**: First mark objects directly associated with GC Roots.
    - Stop The World
    - The stopping time is not related to the heap size, but only to the number of GC Roots.
  - Concurrent Marking**: Traverse the object graph and mark all reachable objects.
    - Concurrent with user threads
    - The duration depends on the number of living objects in the heap and the complexity of the structure of the object graph.
  - **Final Marking**: Processes the remaining SATB scans and at this stage counts the Regions with the highest recycling value and forms a Collection Set from these Regions.
    - There is a short pause
  - Concurrent Cleanup**: Cleans up those Regions that have not found a single surviving object in the entire region.
    - This type of Region is called an Immediate Garbage Region.
  - Concurrent Evacuation (core difference)**: make a copy of the surviving objects from the collection to other unused Regions.
    - Concurrency is solved by read barriers and forwarding pointers to "Brooks Pointers".
    - The run time depends on the size of the collection.
  - **Initial Update Reference**:
    - Reference update: corrects all references to old objects in the heap to the new address after copying them
    - Creates a thread collection point to ensure that all collector threads in the concurrent recovery phase have completed their assigned object movement tasks.
    - A very brief pause is created
  - **Concurrent Update Reference**: the reference update operation actually starts.
    - Concurrent with user threads
    - Running time depends on how many references are designed in memory.
    - Instead of searching along the object graph, it just searches out the reference types linearly, in the order of the physical addresses in memory, changing the old value to the new value
  - **Final Update Reference**: after resolving reference updates in the heap, fix references that exist in GC Roots
    - Final Pause
    - Dwell time is only related to the number of GC Roots
  - **Concurrent Cleanup**: reclaims memory space in those Regions in the reclamation set for later allocation to new objects.

! [Shenandoah Collector Workflow](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/eb893ed0daab2bca09fa5f38c41e0a13.jpeg#pic_center)

### 6.2 ZGC Collector

- ZGC (Z Garbage Collector): A garbage collector based on a Region memory layout, without generations, and with low latency as its primary goal, using counts such as read barriers, stained pointers, and memory multi-mapping to implement a concurrent mark-organize algorithm.
- Memory layout: Region-based heap memory layout

  - Dynamic: dynamic creation and destruction, dynamic region capacity sizing

    Dynamic: dynamic creation and destruction, dynamic region capacity sizing! [Heap memory layout of ZGC](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/0f5ffd32e4da49f92619d12e26e0417c.jpeg#pic_center)
  - **Small Region (Small Region)**: capacity fixed at 2 MB

    - Used for small objects less than 256 KB.
  - **Medium Region**: fixed at 32 MB.

    - Used for objects larger than or equal to 256 KB but smaller than 4 MB.
  - **Large Region (Large Region)**: capacity is not fixed, can be changed dynamically, but must be an integer multiple of 2 MB.

    - Used for large objects of 4 MB or more
    - Only one large object is stored in each Large Region.
    - Will not be reallocated (collector for replicated objects, added below)
- Implementation of Concurrent Sorting Algorithm

  - Use of read barriers and colored pointers
  - Stained pointers: marking information directly on pointers to referenced objects.

    - Stained pointers in Linux have their high 4 bits extracted to store 4 flags.

      - These flag bits allow the virtual machine to see directly from the pointer the tri-color tagged state of the referenced object, whether it is in a redistribution set (moved), and whether it is accessible via the finalize() method.

      ! [color pointer](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/07693f835c6b2b1ced4ecd80d2bfa22f.jpeg#pic_center)

      - Compresses the original 46-bit address space, resulting in no more than
        2
        4
        2
        =4
        4
        T
        B
        2 ^ 42 = 4 TB
        242 = 4 TB
    - Advantages

      - As soon as the living objects of a Region are removed, the Region can be freed and reused without having to wait for all references to the Region in the heap to be corrected.
      - Significantly reduce the number of memory barriers used in the garbage collection process. Memory barriers, especially write barriers, are often set up to record changes in object references, which can be eliminated if the information is maintained directly in pointers.
      - As an extensible storage structure to record more data related to the object tagging and relocation process, in order to further improve performance in the future.
- Workflow

  - Concurrent Mark**: traverse the object graph for reachability analysis.
    - Short pause after initial marking, final marking
    - Marking is done on pointers, not on objects. Marking phase updates Marked 0 and Marked 1 flag bits in colored pointers.
  - Concurrent Prepare for Relocate**: Based on the specific query conditions, which Regions are to be cleaned up in this collection process are counted, and these Regions are formed into a **Relocation Set**.
    - All Regions are scanned for each reclaim.
    - ZGC's Relocation Set only determines that the surviving objects in it will be recopied to other Regions, and the Regions in it will be freed.
    - The marking process is for the whole heap
  - **Concurrent Relocate (the core part)**: copy the surviving objects in the reallocation set to new Regions, and maintain a Forward Table for each Region in the reallocation set to record the steering relationship from the old objects to the new ones.
    - The **Self-Healing** capability of pointers
      - Due to the presence of colored pointers, the ZGC collector can explicitly know whether an object is in a reallocation set by reference alone.
      - If a user thread concurrently accesses an object in the reallocation set at this point, the access is intercepted by a pre-built memory barrier and immediately forwarded to the newly copied object based on the forwarding table record on the Region, correctly updating the value of the reference to point directly to the new object.
    - Only the first access to the old object is caught in the forwarding, and it is slowed down only once.
    - Once the surviving objects in a Region in a reallocation set have been copied, that Region can be immediately freed for allocation of new objects (the forwarding table is retained).
    - Even if the heap is full of unrenewed pointers to this object, there is no problem, these old pointers are self-healing once they have been used.
  - **Concurrent Remap**: fix all references throughout the heap to old objects in the reallocation set
    - Not a task that has to be done "urgently".
      - At most, it's just one more forwarding and fixing operation for the first time.
    - The purpose of cleaning up old references is not to slow things down.

  The purpose of cleaning up old references is to keep things slow! [How ZGC works](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/7ef77ad9cefed1a1b5d029895cd94010.jpeg#pic_center)
- Short pauses are also only related to the size of GC Roots and not to the heap size
- Comparison with the G1 garbage collector

  - Advantages

    - G1: maintains memories by write barriers, can handle intergenerational pointers, enables incremental reclamation of Regions.
      - Memory sets take up a lot of memory space, and write barriers put an extra burden on normal program operation.
    - ZGC: No memory set is used, no generation splitting.
      - ZGC : No memory set is used, no generation splitting, no write barriers at all, reducing the burden on the user program.
  - Disadvantages

    - ZGC : Can't afford to allocate objects at a high rate.

### Reasons why pointers can store additional information

- On 64-bit systems
  - Theoretically accessible memory is
    2
    64
    =In a 64-bit system, the theoretical amount of memory that can be accessed is 2 64
    16
    E
    B
    2 ^ {64} = 16 EB
    264 = 16 EB bytes
  - The AMD64 architecture only supports a 52-bit address bus and a 48-bit virtual address space, so the maximum memory that can be supported by current 64-bit hardware is really just
    2
    48
    =
    2 48 = 256
    T
    B
    2 ^ {48} = 256 TB
    248 = 256 TB
    - Based on 3 considerations
      - Requirements: not that much memory is needed
      - Performance: the wider the address, the more page table stages are needed to do address translation
      - Performance: the wider the address, the more page table stages are needed to do address translation Cost: more transistors consumed
  - The operating system imposes its own constraints
    - The operating system imposes its own constraints.
      - Process virtual address space: 47 bits
      - Physical address space: 46 bits
    - Physical address space: 46 bits
      - Physical address space: 44 bits

### Reasons why the Java VM can redefine pointers in memory (P116) (post-patch)

- Regardless of the intermediate process, the program code is eventually converted into a stream of machine instructions and delivered to the processor for execution, which treats the entire pointer as a single memory address.

## 7. Choosing the Right Garbage Collector

## 7.1 The Epsilon Collector

## 7.2 Collector tradeoffs

### 7.3 Virtual machine and garbage collector logs

### 7.4 Summary of garbage collector parameters