#### Catalog

- [1. Overview](#1__2)
- [2. Modeling in the Age of Big Data](#2__13)
- [3. Why Multiple Models Are Needed](#3__23)
- [4. Wisdom Hierarchy](#4_Wisdom_Hierarchy_67)
- [5. Being a Multi-Model Thinker](#5__106)

## 1. Overview

- Models are formal structures presented in mathematical formulas and diagrams
- With multiple models, we can avoid the limitations inherent in each model itself.
- A multi-model approach eliminates the blind spots of a single model.

## 2. Modeling in the Age of Big Data

- The era of big data can also be the era of multiple models.
- With models we can think more effectively

## 3. Why do we need multiple models?

- If we want to understand international relations, we can't just model the world as a set of self-interested states with clear goals. Nor can we model the world only as a hub of connections between multinational corporations and intergovernmental organizations, but rather as both.
- Models and traditional approaches to modeling

  - Reliance on one-to-one logic: a problem requires a model
  - Goal: identify an appropriate model and apply it correctly
- Multi-thinking modeling approach

  - Trying multiple models
- The disadvantages of traditional thinking based on a single model are shown

  - Educational success depends only on perseverance
  - Capital concentration leads to inequality
  - Sugar consumption leads to poor health of the population
  ---
- Each of the individual models may be correct, but none of them is comprehensive.
- In order to face the complex challenges of creating a world that embraces a wider range of educational achievements, we need more than a single model, we need a grid of multiple models.
- Logic solves problems on its own; all we have to do is observe how it does it
- Three Characteristics of Models

  - Simplification
    - Stripping away unnecessary detail
    - Abstracting away a number of real-world factors
  - Formalization
    - To give a precise definition.
    - A mathematical formula is often used.
  - **All models are wrong **
    - All models only hold true under certain conditions.
    - Details are ignored because of simplification
    - By considering multiple models, we can achieve the intersection of multiple possible scenarios, thus overcoming the narrowness of a single model due to rigor
- We need to utilize multiple models simultaneously to understand complex systems

## 4. Wisdom Hierarchy (Wisdom Hierarchy)

! [Wisdom Hierarchy] (Chapter 1%20Being a Multi-Model Thinker.assets/WisdomHierarchy.jpg)

- Data

  - Raw, uncoded events, experiences, and phenomena
  - Births, deaths, market transactions, voting, music downloads, precipitation, soccer matches, and a wide variety of (species) occurrences
  - Data is lacking meaning, organization, or structure
- Information

  - Naming and categorizing data into appropriate categories
- Knowledge

  - Knowledge is the understanding of correlation, causation, and logical relationships
  - Knowledge organizes information and presents it in the form of a model
- Intelligence

  - Ability to recognize and apply relevant knowledge
  - Requires multi-model thinking
  - Includes choosing the right knowledge or model
- Getting the right answer to a question requires information, knowledge, and wisdom
- Each explanation contains a logical flaw
- No explanation is particularly well-founded in terms of the data itself
- We should endeavor from the outset to give as many explanations as possible for the same set of objective facts, and hope that time will be ripe for more nuanced and coherent explanations of the crisis to emerge.
- It is only through the collection of diverse and often contradictory explanations that we can finally realize a more complete understanding of the crisis.
- The success of multi-model thinking depends on a certain degree of separability.
- Multi-model thinking does not require that different models divide the system into unrelated parts.
- In the face of a complex system, we can partially isolate the main causal relationships and then explore how they are intertwined

## 5. Being a Multi-Model Thinker

- As our understanding of the world becomes greater and deeper, the world also becomes more complex
- We should prioritize logical consistency over intuition