# 1. URL Components Explained

The basic format of a URL

```
scheme://[username:password@]hostname[:port][/path][;parameters][?query][#fragment]
```

- **scheme(protocol)**: protocol

  - Common protocols: hrrp, https, ftp, etc.
- **username, password**: user name, password

  - In some cases, the URL requires a username and password to access it.
- **hostname**: host address

  - Can be a domain name or IP address
- **port**: port

  - NTR_1]
  - Port set by the server
- **path**: path

  - Specified address of the network resource in the server
- **parameters**: parameters

  - Used to specify additional information when accessing a resource
- **query**: query

  - Used to query a certain type of resource
  - If there is more than one query, separate them with &
- **fragment**: fragment

  - A partial addition to a resource description
  - Two main applications
    - Single-page routing: Vue and React can use this to manage routing.
    - HTML anchor: control a page to automatically scroll down to a specific position when it opens.

# 2. First Django project

- Select the Django project to create automatically via Pycharm.

## 2.1 Project structure

- Project name
  - `asgi.py`: entry point to the project for **asynchronous** Server Gateway Interface (ASGI) configuration
    - ASGI is a new protocol that supports asynchronous programming and is suitable for asynchronous tasks such as WebSocket
  - `settings.py`: Global configuration file for the project
    - Database Configuration
    - Static file path
    - List of installed applications
    - Middleware configuration
    - Security settings
    - Security settings, etc.
  - `urls.py`: Manages URL routing, defines the mapping between user requested paths and corresponding view functions.
  - `wsgi.py`: Project entry point for **Synchronized** Server Gateway Interface (WSGI) configuration
    - WSGI is a specification for synchronized Web request processing.
    - **Django uses it by default to deploy**
- `manage.py`: Managing and executing Django commands (`python manage.py [子命令]`)
  - Running the server
  - Migrating the database
  - Creating applications
  - etc.

## 2.2 Relationship between project and app

- `app`: Components of a Django project

  - A `app` represents a module in the project, and all responses to URL requests are handled by `app`.

  ```
  python manage.py startapp 模块名称
  ```
- `project`: consists of many `app`.

  - One `app` can be used in other projects.

# 3. Mapping of URLs to View Functions

- Modifying the Initial Interface
- NTR_24]

  ```
  from django.http import HttpResponse

  def index(request):
      return HttpResponse("Welcome")

  urlpatterns = [
      path("", index),
  ]
  ```

  - The first parameter in the defined jump function must be `request`

# 4. Two ways to pass parameters to a URL

## 4.1 Querying by String

- NTR_26]

  ```
  from django.http import HttpResponse

  def book_detail_query_string(request):  # 通过字段查询 http://localhost:8000/book?id=3
      book_id = request.GET.get("id")  # 等同于 request.GET["id"] 但是 get 方法更加安全，当属性不存在时会返回 None 而不是抛出异常
      return HttpResponse(f"book id: {book_id}")
  ```
- `urls.py`

  ```
  from book import views

  urlpatterns = [
      path("book", views.book_detail_query_string),
  ]
  ```

## 4.2 Carrying in path

- `book/views.py`

  ```
  from django.http import HttpResponse

  def book_detail_path_variable(request, book_id):  # 在 path 中携带参数 http://localhost:8000/book/3
      return HttpResponse(f"book id: {book_id}")
  ```
- `urls.py`

  ```
  from book import views

  urlpatterns = [
      path("book/<int:book_id>", views.book_detail_path_variable),  # 添加数据类型限制输入，并限定views.py接收到的book_id为整形
  ]
  ```

# 5. path function explained

```
path(route, view, kwargs=None, name=None)
```

- **route: ** String defining the path portion of the URL.
  - Can contain variables, such as `<int:my_variable>`, to capture parameters from the URL and pass them to the view function
  - Common Data Types
    - `str`: non-empty string without slash (`/`) (**default**)
    - `int`: non-negative integer
    - `slug`: string consisting of a horizontal bar (`-`) or an underscore (`_`) with characters or numbers
    - `uuid`: `uuid` String of characters
    - `path`: `path`: Non-empty string
- **view: ** view function that handles requests matching a given route
  - Can be a function or a class-based view
- **kwargs (optional):** a dictionary containing additional keyword arguments passed to the view function
- **name (optional):** Assigns a unique name to the URL route so that it can be referenced elsewhere in the code.
  - This is useful for things like generating URLs in templates or redirecting them in code!

# 6. Routing Modularity

- NTR_40]

  ```
  from django.urls import path
  from . import views

  app_name = "book"  # 指定应用名称（命名空间）

  urlpatterns = [
      path("list", views.book_list, name="book_list"),
      path("detail/<int:book_id>", views.book_detail, name="book_detail"),
  ]
  ```
- `book/views.py`

  ```
  from django.http import HttpResponse

  def book_list(request):
      return HttpResponse(f"Book list")

  def book_detail(request, book_id):
      return HttpResponse(f"Book detail: {book_id}")
  ```
- `urls.py`

  ```
  from django.urls import include

  urlpatterns = [
     path("book/", include("book.urls"))
  ]
  ```

# 7. route reversal

- `urls.py`

  ``
  from django.http import HttpResponse
  from book import views
  from django.urls import reverse

  def index(request).
      print(reverse("index"))
      # /

      print(reverse("book:book_list")) # Get the reversal in the app using a semicolon, i.e. app name : url name
      # /book/list

      print(reverse("book:book_detail", kwargs={"book_id": 3}))
      # /book/detail/3

      return HttpResponse("Welcome")

  urlpatterns = [
      path("", index, name='index'), urlpatterns = [
      path("book/", include("book.urls")), [
  ]
