#### Catalog

- [1. Definition and characterization of linear tables](#1__2)
- [2. Sequential Representation and Implementation of Linear Tables](#2__20)
- [2.1 Sequential storage representation of linear tables](#21__22)
  - [2.2 Implementation of basic operations in sequential tables](#22__107)
  - [2.2.1 Initialization](#221__109)
    - [2.2.2 Taking values](#222__129)
    - [2.2.3 Find](#223__143)
    - [2.2.4 Insert](#224__178)
    - [2.2.5 Delete](#225__245)
  - [Sequence Table Summary](#_307)
  - [Test code](#_316)
- [3. Chained representation and implementation of linear tables](#3__470)
- [3.1 Definition and representation of a single linked table](#31__472)
  - [3.2 Implementation of basic operations on single linked tables](#32__511)
  - [3.2.1 Initialization](#321__513)
    - [3.2.2 Taking values](#322__530)
    - [3.2.3 Find](#323__577)
    - [3.2.4 Insert](#324__612)
    - [3.2.5 Delete](#325__669)
    - [Test Code](#_718)
    - [3.2.6 Creating a single linked table](#326__897)
    - [(1) Header insertion](#1__903)
      - [(2) Tail insertion](#2__946)
  - [3.3 Circular chained tables](#33__995)
  - [3.4 Bidirectional chained tables] (#34__1030)
- [4. Comparison of sequential and linked tables](#4__1143)
- [4.1 Comparison of space performance](#41__1145)
  - [4.2 Comparison of time performance] (#42__1171)

## 1. Definition and characteristics of linear tables

- **Linear table**: a finite sequence of n (n ≥ 0) elements with identical data characteristics

  - Length of a linear table: number of elements n
  - **Empty table**: when n = 0
- For non-empty linear tables or linear structures, the characteristics:

  - There exists a unique data element called "first".
  - There is a unique data element called "last".
  - Each data element in the structure, except the first, has only one predecessor.
  - Each data element in the structure has only one successor except the last one.

## 2. Sequential Representation and Implementation of Linear Tables

## 2.1 Sequential Storage Representation of Linear Tables

- **Sequential List**: A set of memory cells with consecutive addresses are used to store the data elements of a linear table sequentially.

  - Also known as the sequential storage structure or sequential image of a linear table.
  - Characteristics:
    - Logically adjacent data elements
    - Logically adjacent data elements are also physically adjacent.
- Assuming that each element of a linear table occupies l memory cells, the data element is stored at the address of the first cell it occupies.

  - The storage location LOC(ai+1) of the i + 1 data element and the storage location LOC(ai) of the i data element satisfy the following relationship

    LOC(ai) and LOC(ai) of the i-th data element satisfy the following relationship

  - The storage location of the ith element ai of the linear table is

    $$
    LOC(a_i) = LOC(a_1) + (i-1)*l
    $$


    - LOC(ai) is often called the starting location or base address of the linear table.
  - As long as the starting location of the stored linear table is determined, any data element in the linear table can be stored randomly, so the sequential storage structure of a linear table is a **random storage** storage structure
- The sequential storage structure of a linear table is a **random storage** storage structure, and arrays are often used to describe the sequential storage structure of a data structure.

  - Because the length of the linear table is variable, and the maximum storage space required varies with the problem, the linear table is represented in C by a dynamically allocated one-dimensional array

    ```c
    #define MAXSIZE 5				// 线性表可能达到的最大长度
    
    typedef struct {
        ElemType *elem;				// 存储空间的基地址
        int length;					// 当前长度
    } SqList;						// 顺序表的结构类型为 SqList
    ```

    - ElemType is self-defined for the purpose of uniform description, in practice, the user defines the data type of the data elements in the table according to the actual needs.
      - It can be basic data type
        - It can be basic data type, such as int, float, char, etc.
      - It can also be a constructed data type
        - struct struct type
- Example of sequential storage of polynomials

  $$
  P_n(x) = p_1x^{e_1} + p_2x^{e_2} + \cdots + p_mx^{e_m}
  $$

  $$
  0 \leq e_1 < e_2 < \cdots < e_m = n
  $$

  - Using a linear table of length m with two data items (coefficient and exponent terms) per element

  $$
  [(p_1,e_1),(p_2,e_2),\cdots,(p_m,e_m)]
  $$

  ```c
  #define MAXSIZE 5					// 线性表可能达到的最大长度
  
  typedef struct {					// 多项式的定义
      float coef;						// 系数
      int expn;						// 指数
  } Polynomial;
  
  typedef struct {
      Polynomial *elem;				// 存储空间的基地址
      int length;						// 多项式中当前项的个数
  } SqList;							// 多项式的顺序存储结构类型为 SqList
  ```

  ! [Sequential storage representation of linear tables](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/d770a679f067ad850d9bbffde65f8b26.png#pic_center)

### 2.2 Implementation of basic operations in sequential tables

#### 2.2.1 Initialization

- Construct an empty sequential table
- Step:

  - Dynamically allocate a predefined size of array space for the sequential table so that elem points to the base address of this space.
  - Set the current length of the table to 0.

Set the current length of the table to 0.

#### 2.2.2 Taking Values

- Get the value of the ith data element in the sequential table according to the specified position number i.

```c
void GetElem(SqList* L, int i) {
    printf("Get Success\n");
    printf("first = %d\n", L->abc[i].first);
    printf("second = %d\n", L->abc[i].second);
}
```

#### 2.2.3 Search

- Compare the data in order from the first element and get the data that is successfully compared.

```c
void LocateElem(SqList* L, int value) {
    printf("Locate Success\n");
    int j;
    for (int i = 0; i < L->length; i++)
    {
        j = L->abc[i].second;
        if (j == value)
        {
            printf("index = %d\n", i);
        }
    }
}
```

- In the search, in order to determine the position of the element in the sequential table, the expected value of the number of data elements to be compared with a given value is called the search algorithm in the search success ** Average Search Length (ASL) **
- Assuming that pi is the probability of finding the ith element, Ci is to find the ith record in the table whose keyword is equal to the given value, and the given value has been compared with the number of keywords, then in the length of n in the linear table, the average search length of a successful search is

  $$
  ASL = \sum_{i=1}^{n}{p_ic_i}
  $$
   In general Ci = i , pi = 1/n, so ASL can be simplified as follows

  $$
  ASL = \frac{1}{n} \sum_{i=1}^{n}{i} = \frac{n+1}{2}
  $$
   Therefore, the average time complexity of the sequential table lookup by value algorithm is O(n)

#### 2.2.4 Insertion

- Insert a new data element e at position i of the table so that the linear table of length n

  $$
  (a_1,\cdots,a_{i-1},a_i,\cdots,a_n)
  $$
   into a linear table of length n+1.

  $$
  (a_1,\cdots,a_{i-1},e,a_i,\cdots,a_n)
  $$

  - The logical relationship between data elements ai-1 and ai changes
  - In a sequential table, since logically adjacent data elements are also physically adjacent, unless i = n+1, the elements must be moved to reflect this change in logical relationship
  - In general, when inserting an element at the i (1 ≤ i ≤ n) position, start from the last element, i.e., the nth element, and move backward by one position until the ith element (n-i+1 elements in total).
- Step:

  - Determine whether the insertion position i is legal.
  - Determine whether the storage space of the sequential table is full.
  - Determine if the sequential table is full. Move the elements from the nth to the ith position one position backward, leaving the ith position empty.
  - Place the new element e in position i.
  - Add 1 to the length of the table.

_```c
void ListInsert(SqList* L, ABC abc, int index) {
    if (index < 0 || index > L->length || L->length == MAXSIZE)
    {
        printf("Insert Error\n");
        return 0;
    }

    int i = L->length - 1;

    while ((i - index) != -1)
    {
        L->abc[i + 1] = L->abc[i];
        i--;
    }

    L->abc[index] = abc;
    L->length += 1;

    printf("Insert Success\n");
}
```

```c
void ListInsert(SqList* L, ABC abc, int index) {
    if (index < 0 || index > L->length || L->length == MAXSIZE)
    {
        printf("Insert Error\n");
        return 0;
    }

    int i = L->length - 1;

    while ((i - index) != -1)
    {
        L->abc[i + 1] = L->abc[i];
        i--;
    }

    L->abc[index] = abc;
    L->length += 1;

    printf("Insert Success\n");
}
``` ! [Sequential table insertion](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/501a3ff17fc1d8594d2fd78f19c7bdcc.png#pic_center)

- Assuming that pi is the probability of inserting an element before the ith element, and Eins is the expected value of the number of times an element needs to be moved (the average number of times) when inserting an element in a linear table of length n, we have

  $$
  E_{ins} = \sum_{i=1}^{n+1}{p_i(n-i+1)}
  $$.
   In general, pi = 1/(n+1), so Eins can be reduced to

  $$
  E_{ins} = \frac{1}{n+1} \sum_{i=1}^{n+1}{(n-i+1)} = \frac{n}{2}
  $$
   Thus, the average time complexity of the sequential table insertion algorithm is O(n)

#### 2.2.5 Deletion

- Delete the ith element of the table so that a linear table of length n

  $$
  (a_1,\cdots,a_{i-1},a_i,a_{i+1}\cdots,a_n)
  $$
   becomes a linear table of length n-1

  $$
  (a_1,\cdots,a_{i-1},a_{i+1},\cdots,a_n)
  $$

  - The logical relationship between the data elements ai-1, ai, and ai+1 has changed, and in order to reflect this change in the storage structure, the elements also need to be moved.
  - In general, when deleting the ith (1 ≤ i ≤ n) element, move the i+1st to the nth element (n-i elements in total) forward by one position.
- Steps:

  - Determine whether deletion position i is legal.
  - Move the elements from the i+1st to the nth position forward by one position.
  - Table length minus 1

Table length is reduced by 1.

! [sequential table deletion](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/0fc58bfab0ad9cb069931aab77d83a4d.png#pic_center)

- Assuming that pi is the probability of deleting the ith element, and Edel is the expected value of the number of times an element needs to be moved when deleting an element in a linear table of length n (the average number of times), we have

  $$
  E_{del} = \sum_{i=1}^{n}{p_i(n-i)}
  $$
   In general, pi = 1/n, so Edel can be reduced to

  $$
  E_{del} = \frac{1}{n} \sum_{i=1}^{n}{(n-i)} = \frac{n-1}{2}
  $$
   Thus, the average time complexity of the sequential table insertion algorithm is O(n)

### Sequential table summary

- A sequential table can randomly access any element of the table, and its storage location can be represented by a simple, intuitive formula.
- However, this feature also creates a disadvantage of this storage structure:
  - However, this feature also causes the disadvantages of this kind of storage structure: a large number of elements need to be moved when doing insertion or deletion operations.
- Because of the static nature of the array has a relatively fixed length, when the number of data elements in the table is large and large changes, the operation process is relatively complex, which will inevitably lead to a waste of storage space

### Test code

```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

#define MAXSIZE 5

void InitList(SqList);
void GetElem(SqList);
void LocateElem(SqList);
void ListInsert(SqList, ABC);
void TraverseList(SqList);
void ListDelete(SqList);

typedef struct {
    int first;
    int second;
} ABC;

typedef struct {
    ABC* abc;
    int length;
} SqList;

int main() {
    SqList L;
    ABC a;
    ABC b;
    ABC c;

    InitList(&L);

    printf("****************\n");

    a.first = 1;
    a.second = 0;

    c.first = 3;
    c.second = 2;

    L.abc[0] = a;
    L.length += 1;

    L.abc[1] = c;
    L.length += 1;

    TraverseList(&L);

    printf("****************\n");

    GetElem(&L, 0);

    printf("****************\n");

    LocateElem(&L, 2);

    printf("****************\n");

    b.first = 2;
    b.second = 1;

    ListInsert(&L, b, 1);

    TraverseList(&L);

    printf("****************\n");

    ListDelete(&L, 2);

    TraverseList(&L);

    printf("****************\n");

}

void InitList(SqList* L) {
    L->abc = (ABC *) malloc(MAXSIZE * sizeof(ABC));
    L->length = 0;
    printf("Init Success\n");
}

void GetElem(SqList* L, int i) {
    printf("Get Success\n");
    printf("first = %d\n", L->abc[i].first);
    printf("second = %d\n", L->abc[i].second);
}

void LocateElem(SqList* L, int value) {
    printf("Locate Success\n");
    int j;
    for (int i = 0; i < L->length; i++)
    {
        j = L->abc[i].second;
        if (j == value)
        {
            printf("index = %d\n", i);
        }
    }
}

void ListInsert(SqList* L, ABC abc, int index) {
    if (index < 0 || index > L->length || L->length == MAXSIZE)
    {
        printf("Insert Error\n");
        return 0;
    }

    int i = L->length - 1;

    while ((i - index) != -1)
    {
        L->abc[i + 1] = L->abc[i];
        i--;
    }

    L->abc[index] = abc;
    L->length += 1;

    printf("Insert Success\n");
}

void ListDelete(SqList* L, int index) {
    int i = L->length;

    if (index < 0 || index > (L->length - 1))
    {
        printf("Delete Error\n");
        return 0;
    }

    while ((i - 1 - index) != -1)
    {
        L->abc[index] = L->abc[index+1];
        index++;
    }

    L->length -= 1;

    printf("Delete Success\n");
}

void TraverseList(SqList* L) {
    printf("Traverse Success\n");
    for (int i = 0; i < L->length; i++)
    {
        printf("abc[%d] : first = %d, second = %d\n", i, L->abc[i].first, L->abc[i].second);
    }
    printf("length = %d\n", L->length);
}
```

## 3. Chained Representation and Implementation of Linear Tables

### 3.1 Definition and representation of a single linked table

- **Chained table**: an arbitrary set of storage units to store the data elements of a linear table (the set of storage units can be contiguous or discontinuous)

  - In order to represent the logical relationship between each data element ai and its direct successor ai+1, it is necessary to store, in addition to its own information, an indication of its direct successor (the location of the direct successor) for data element ai.
  - **node**: the above two pieces of information form the storage image of the data element ai.
    - contains two domains
      - **Data field**: the field that stores information about the data elements
      - **Pointer field**: the field that stores the direct successor storage locations
        - The stored information is called **pointer** or **chain**.
  - The n nodes are chained together to form a linked table, i.e., the chained storage structure of a linear table
    - Because each node in this chain table contains only one pointer field, it is also called **Linear Chain Table** or **Single Chain Table**.
- Single chained table: access to the entire chained table must start from the head pointer, the head pointer indicates the storage location of the first node of the chained table

  - Since the last data element has no direct successor, the pointer to the last node is empty (NULL).

```c
typedef struct LNode {
	ElemType data;					// 结点的数据域
	struct LNode* next;				// 结点的指针域
}LNode, *LinkList;					// LinkList 为指向结构体 LNode 的指针类型
```

- In general, a node is attached before the first node of a single linked table, called the **head node**
- The effect of adding a header node

  - Facilitates the handling of the first node
  - Facilitates the unified treatment of empty and non-empty tables

! [Chained storage representation of linear tables](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/1ca4535c99c70ef35e35720194adc937.png#pic_center)

### 3.2 Implementation of basic operations on single linked tables

#### 3.2.1 Initialization

- Steps
  - Generate a new node as the head node and point to the head node with head node L.
  - Empty the pointer field of the head node.

```c
void InitList(LinkList* L, ABC abc) {
	*L = (LinkList)malloc(sizeof(LNode));
	(*L)->abc = abc;
	(*L)->next = NULL;
	printf("Init Success\n");
}
```

#### 3.2.2 Taking values

- Steps
  - Point to the first node with pointer p, and use j as the initial value of the counter.
  - Starting from the primitive node, access down the chain domain next, as long as the pointer p to the current node is not null and has not reached the node with index, the loop will be executed.
    - p points to the next node
    - Counter i plus 1

```c
void GetElem(LinkList* L, int index, ABC* abc) {
	LNode* p = (*L)->next;
	int i = 0;

	if (index >= (*L)->length)
	{
		printf("Get Error\n");
		return 0;
	}

	while (i < index)
	{
		i++;
		p = p->next;
	}

	*abc = p->abc;

	printf("Get Success\n");
}
```

- Compare i and index and move back pointer p. Frequency of statements in the while loop body is related to position i.

  - If 1 ≤ i ≤ n, the frequency is i-1, and the fetch must succeed.
  - If 1 ≤ i ≤ n, the frequency is i-1 , and the fetch must succeed.
  - Worst time complexity is O(n)

  In general, pi = 1/n, then

  $$
  ASL = \frac{1}{n} \sum_{i=1}^{n}{(i-1)} = \frac{n-1}{2}
  $$
   Thus, the average time complexity of the single linked table fetch algorithm is O(n)

#### 3.2.3 Finding

- Step
  - Point to the first node with pointer p
  - Starting from the primitive node, look down the chain next, and as long as the pointer p to the current node is not null and the node with index number has not been reached, the loop will execute
    - p points to the next node

```c
void LocateElem(LinkList* L, ABC abc) {
	LNode* p = (*L)->next;

	while (p != NULL)
	{

		if (p->abc.first == abc.first && p->abc.second == abc.second)
		{
			printf("p->abc.first = %d\n", abc.first);
			printf("p->abc.second = %d\n", abc.second);
			return 0;
		}

		p = p->next;

	}
	printf("Locate Error\n");
	return 0;
}
```

- The average time complexity of the single linked table lookup algorithm is O(n).

#### 3.2.4 Insertion

- Suppose a data element x is to be inserted between two data elements a and b of a single linked table

  - Generate a node with data field x and insert it into the singly linked table.
  - Modify the pointer field of node a to point to node x, and the pointer in node x should point to node b, so as to realize the logical relationship between the three elements a, b, and x.
- Steps

  - Find node ai-1 and point to it with pointer p.
  - Generate a new node \*s
  - Set the data field of the new node \*s to e.
  - Set the data field of the new node \*s to e. Point the pointer field of the new node \*s to node ai.
  - Point pointer field of new node \*s to node ai.

\*s

! [Chain table insertion](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/9faa94ffffa959ea3d9016ee7136b7e4.png#pic_center)

- The average time complexity of the single linked table insertion algorithm is O(n)

#### 3.2.5 Deletion

- Step
  - Find node ai-1 and point to it by pointer p.
  - Temporarily store the address of the node ai to be deleted in q for release.
  - Point the pointer field of node \*p to the direct successor of ai.
  - Free space at node ai

```c
void ListDelete(LinkList* L, int index) {
	LNode* p = (*L)->next;
	LNode* q = NULL;
	int i = 0;

	if (index >= (*L)->length)
	{
		printf("Delete Error\n");
		return 0;
	}

	while (i < (index - 1))
	{
		i++;
		p = p->next;
	}

	q = p->next;
	
	p->next = q->next;

	free(q);

	(*L)->length--;

	printf("Delete Success\n");
}
```

! [Chain table deleted](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/0e6e483246918ca0030494abf8d6c94e.png#pic_center)

- The average time complexity of the single linked table deletion algorithm is O(n)

#### Test code

```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

void InitList(LinkList, ABC);
void GetElem(LinkList);
void LocateElem(LinkList, ABC);
void ListInsert(LinkList, ABC);
void ListDelete(LinkList);

typedef struct {
	int first;
	int second;
} ABC;

typedef struct LNode {
	ABC abc;
	int length;
	struct LNode* next;
}LNode, *LinkList;

int main() {
	LinkList L = NULL;
	LinkList L0 = NULL;
	LinkList L1 = NULL;
	LinkList L2 = NULL;
	ABC abc;

	abc.first = 0;
	abc.second = 0;
	InitList(&L, abc);
	printf("****************\n");

	abc.first = 1;
	abc.second = 1;
	InitList(&L0, abc);
	printf("****************\n");

	abc.first = 3;
	abc.second = 3;
	InitList(&L2, abc);
	printf("****************\n");

	L->next = L0;
	L->length++;
	L0->next = L2;
	L->length++;
	printf("****************\n");

	GetElem(&L, 0, &abc);
	printf("abc.first = %d\n", abc.first);
	printf("****************\n");

	LocateElem(&L, abc);
	printf("****************\n");

	abc.first = 2;
	abc.second = 2;
	ListInsert(&L, 1, abc);
	LocateElem(&L, abc);
	printf("****************\n");

	ListDelete(&L, 1);
	LocateElem(&L, abc);
	printf("****************\n");
}

void InitList(LinkList* L, ABC abc) {
	*L = (LinkList)malloc(sizeof(LNode));
	(*L)->abc = abc;
	(*L)->length = 0;
	(*L)->next = NULL;
	printf("Init Success\n");
}

void GetElem(LinkList* L, int index, ABC* abc) {
	LNode* p = (*L)->next;
	int i = 0;

	if (index >= (*L)->length)
	{
		printf("Get Error\n");
		return 0;
	}

	while (i < index)
	{
		i++;
		p = p->next;
	}

	*abc = p->abc;

	printf("Get Success\n");
}

void LocateElem(LinkList* L, ABC abc) {
	LNode* p = (*L)->next;

	while (p != NULL)
	{

		if (p->abc.first == abc.first && p->abc.second == abc.second)
		{
			printf("Locate Success\n");
			printf("p->abc.first = %d\n", abc.first);
			printf("p->abc.second = %d\n", abc.second);
			return 0;
		}

		p = p->next;

	}
	printf("Locate Error\n");
	return 0;
}

void ListInsert(LinkList* L, int index, ABC abc) {
	LinkList new = (LinkList)malloc(sizeof(LNode));

	new->abc = abc;
	new->next = NULL;

	LNode* p = (*L)->next;
	int i = 0;

	if (index > (*L)->length)
	{
		printf("Insert Error\n");
		return 0;
	}

	while (i < (index - 1))
	{
		i++;
		p = p->next;
	}

	new->next = p->next;
	p->next = new;

	(*L)->length++;

	printf("Insert Success\n");
}

void ListDelete(LinkList* L, int index) {
	LNode* p = (*L)->next;
	LNode* q = NULL;
	int i = 0;

	if (index >= (*L)->length)
	{
		printf("Delete Error\n");
		return 0;
	}

	while (i < (index - 1))
	{
		i++;
		p = p->next;
	}

	q = p->next;
	
	p->next = q->next;

	free(q);

	(*L)->length--;

	printf("Delete Success\n");
}
```

#### 3.2.6 Creating a single linked table

- The method of creating a linked table can be categorized into header insertion and tail insertion methods

##### (1) Header insertion method

- Insert new nodes into the head of the chain table one by one (after the head node) to create the table, each time applying for a new node, reading in the corresponding data elements, and then inserting the new node after the head node.
- Steps

  - Create an empty linked table with only the head node.
  - Depending on the number of elements n to be included in the created table, loop n times to perform the following operations
    - Create a new node \*p
    - Generate a new node \*p Generate a new node \*p Generate a new node \*p Generate a new node \*p
    - Insert the new node \*p after the head node.

```c
void CreateList_H(LinkList* L, int num) {
	*L = (LinkList)malloc(sizeof(LNode));
	(*L)->abc.first = 0;
	(*L)->abc.second = 0;
	(*L)->next = NULL;
	(*L)->length = 0;

	for (int i = num; i > 0; i--)
	{
		LinkList p;
		p = (LinkList)malloc(sizeof(LNode));
		p->abc.first = i;
		p->abc.second = i;

		p->next = (*L)->next;
		(*L)->next = p;
	}
}
```

! [Header insertion creates a single linked table](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/ff830ebbad3ca3e7969ee50bb235a675.png#pic_center)

- The average time complexity of the single linked table header insertion algorithm is O(n)

##### (2) Tail insertion method

- New nodes are inserted one by one into the tail of a linked table to create a linked table.
- Each time a new node is requested, the corresponding data element is read in.
- In order to insert a new node to the end of the table, a tail pointer r is added to point to the tail node of the chain table.
- Procedure
  - Create an empty linked table with only a head node.
  - Initialize the tail pointer r to point to the head node.
  - Depending on the number n of elements to be created, do the following n times.
    - Create a new node \*p
    - Assign the input element values to the data field of the new node \*p.
    - Insert the new node \*p after the tail node \*r.
    - After inserting the new node \*p into the tail node \*r, the tail pointer r points to the new tail node \*p.

\*p

! [Tail insertion to create a single linked table](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/654bf057ffd1ca884c2df734e8bdf69c.png#pic_center)

- The average time complexity of the single linked table tail insertion algorithm is O(n)

### 3.3 Cyclic Chained Tables

- **Circular Linked List**: the pointer field of the last node points to the head node, and the whole list forms a ring.

  - Division from any node in the table can find the other nodes in the table.
- Difference between a single linked list and a circular linked list: when traversing a linked list, the termination conditions for determining whether the current pointer p is pointing to the end of the table are different.

  - Single linked table
    - p ! p ! = NULL or p -> next ! p ! = NULL or p -> next !
  - Cyclic linked table
    - p ! = L or p -> next ! p ! = L or p -> next !
- In some cases, having a tail pointer instead of a head pointer in a circular chain table can simplify some operations

  - Combining two tables

    - Combine the two tables by pointing the tail pointer of the first table to the first node of the second table, and the tail pointer of the second table to the head node of the first table, releasing the head node of the second table.

    ```c
    // 将表 A 和 B 合并
    p = B->next->next;
    B->next = A->next;
    A->next = p;
    ```

! [Circular Chain Table Merge](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/7dd4a12ead6c8e460b19083eef4ba0ed.png#pic_center)

### 3.4 Two-way chained tables

- In a single linked table, the execution time to find the direct successor node is O(1) and the execution time to find the direct predecessor is O(n)
- To overcome this unidirectionality, a **Double Linked List** can be used
  - The nodes of a double linked list have two pointer fields, one pointing to the direct successor and the other to the direct predecessor

```c
typedef struct DuLNode {
    ElemType data;					// 数据域
    struct DuLNode *prior;			// 指向直接前驱
    struct DuLNode *next;			// 指向直接后继
} DuLNode, *DuLinkList;
```

- Bidirectional linked lists can also have circular lists

! [Double linked table storage representation](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/87572045f76aef677ae21975f5a122f8.png#pic_center)

- Insertion (P40)
  - Steps
    - Determine the position pointer p of the ith element in L
    - Generate new node \*s
    - Set the data field of node \*s to e.
    - Insert node \*s into L.

```c
void ListInsert_DuL(DuLinkList* L, int index, ABC abc) {
    DuLinkList new = (DuLinkList)malloc(sizeof(DuLNode));

	new->abc = abc;
    new->prior = NULL;
	new->next = NULL;

	LNode* p = (*L)->next;
	int i = 0;

	if (index > (*L)->length)
	{
		printf("Insert Error\n");
		return 0;
	}

	while (i < index)
	{
		i++;
		p = p->next;
	}

    new->prior = p->prior;
    p->prior->next - new;
	new->next = p;
	p->prior = new;

	(*L)->length++;

	printf("Insert Success\n");
}
```

! [Double linked table insertion node](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/02fe876a197d6e6f7c62319c0454f1ec.png#pic_center)

- Delete (P40)
  - Steps
    - Determine the position pointer p of the ith element in L.
    - Modify the successor pointer of the predecessor node of the deleted node. p
    - Modify the predecessor pointer of the successor node of the deleted node.

```c
void ListDelete_DuL(DuLinkList* L, int index) {
	DuLNode* p = (*L)->next;
	int i = 0;

	if (index >= (*L)->length)
	{
		printf("Delete Error\n");
		return 0;
	}

	while (i < index)
	{
		i++;
		p = p->next;
	}

	p->prior->next = p->next;
    p->next->prior = p->prior;

	free(p);

	(*L)->length--;

	printf("Delete Success\n");
}
```

! [Double linked table deleted node](https://i-blog.csdnimg.cn/blog_migrate/7a74a7a87f8fdc1ac6f2a30c8621a5c2.png#pic_center)

## 4. Comparison of sequential and linked tables

## 4.1 Comparison of spatial performance

- Allocation of storage space

  - Sequential table: storage space must be pre-allocated, the number of elements is limited, which may lead to waste of storage space or space overflow.
  - Sequential table: storage space must be allocated in advance, and the number of elements is limited, which may lead to waste of storage space or space overflow.
- When the length of the linear table varies greatly and it is difficult to predict the storage size, it is appropriate to use the chain table as the storage structure.
- Size of storage density

  - **Storage density**: the ratio of the storage occupied by the data element itself and the storage occupied by the entire node structure

    $$
    存储密度=\frac{数据元素本身占用的存储量}{结点结构占用的存储量}
    $$.
     The higher the storage density, the higher the storage space occupation rate
  - In addition to the data field for storing data elements, each node of a linked table has to set up an additional pointer field for storing pointers indicating the logical relationship between elements, which is uneconomical in terms of storage density.
  - The storage density of a sequential table is 1, while the storage density of a linked table is less than 1.
- When the length of a linear table does not vary much and its size can be easily determined in advance, in order to save storage space, it is appropriate to use a sequential table as a storage structure

### 4.2 Comparison of time performance

- Efficiency of accessing elements

  - Sequential table: realized by an array, it is a random access structure, specifying any position number i, the element at that position can be accessed directly in O(1) time.
    - The efficiency of fetch operation is high
  - Chain table: a sequential access structure, according to the position to access the ith element in the chain table, can only start from the head of the table sequentially backward traversal of the chain table, until it finds the ith element, the time complexity is O(n)
    - Low efficiency of fetch operation
- If the main operations of a linear table are those closely related to the position of the elements, and insertion or deletion is rare, it is appropriate to use a sequential table as a storage structure.
- Efficiency of insertion and deletion operations

  - Sequential table: on average, nearly half of the nodes in the table have to be moved, and the time complexity is O(n).
  - Chain table: no need to move data, only need to modify pointers, time complexity is O(1)
- For linear tables with frequent insertion or deletion operations, it is preferable to use chained tables as the storage structure.