#### Catalog

- [1. shutil module](#1_shutil__2)
- [1.1 Copying Files and Folders](#11__8)
  - [1.2 Moving and renaming files and folders](#12__32)
  - [1.3 Permanently delete files and folders](#13__48)
- [2. Traversing the directory tree](#2__65)
- [3. Compressing files with the zipfile module](#3__zipfile__84)
- [3.1 Reading a zip file](#31__zip__86)
  - [3.2 Extracting from a zip file](#32__zip__111)
  - [3.3 Creating and adding to zip files](#33__zip__128)

## 1. shutil module

- Copying, moving, renaming and deleting files

## 1.1 Copying Files and Folders

- shutil.copy(source, destination)
  - Copy a single file
  - source: original file
  - destination: the destination file (created if it doesn't exist)

```python
import shutil

shutil.copy("messages.txt", "copy.txt")
```

- shutil.copytree(source, destination)
  - Copy multiple files

```python
import shutil

shutil.copytree("./", "./backup")
```

### 1.2 Moving and Renaming Files and Folders

- shutil.move(source, destination)
  - Moving a file
  - If the file is moved to the specified file, move the file first, then rename the file.
  - If moving to a specified folder, but the folder does not exist, move the file to the previous path, then rename the file to the folder name (keeping the original file suffix)

```python
import shutil

shutil.move("./copy.txt", "./backup/backup.txt")
shutil.move("./copy.txt", "./backup")
```

### 1.3 Permanently Deleting Files and Folders

- os.unlink(): deletes a single file.
- os.rmdir(): deletes empty folders.
- shutil.rmtree: delete folders

```python
import os
import shutil

os.unlink("messages.txt")
os.rmdir("backup")
shutil.rmtree("backup")
```

## 2. Traverse the directory tree

- os.walk()
  - Returns a generator object that can be output as a list.
  - The first level of the list is composed of tuples, one tuple for each folder.
  - The contents of the tuple
    - dirpath: the path to this folder
    - dirnames: names of one level of folders in this folder (in list form).
    - filenames: names of the files in the folder (in list form)

```python
import os

print(list(os.walk("./backup")))
# [('./backup', [], ['copy.txt'])]
```: names of files in this folder (in list form)

## 3. Compressing files with the zipfile module

### 3.1 Reading a zip file

- zipfile.ZipFile(): get the ZipFile object.
- namelist(): get the list of file names in the zip file.
- getinfo(): get information of the specified file in the zip file.
  - file\_size: size of the original file.
  - compress\_size: size after compression.

```python
import zipfile

zipfile = zipfile.ZipFile("Python编程快速上手.zip")

print(zipfile.namelist())

info = zipfile.getinfo("第10章 组织文件.md")

print(info.file_size)
print(info.compress_size)

zipfile.close()
```

### 3.2 Unpacking from a zip file

- extract(): extract a single file.
- extractall(): extract all files.
- Default extract to current working directory

```python
import zipfile

zipfile = zipfile.ZipFile("Python编程快速上手.zip")
zipfile.extract("第10章 组织文件.md")
zipfile.extractall("./backup")
zipfile.close()
```.

### 3.3 Creating and adding to zip files

- Create zipfile objects in write mode
- write(): create a zip file.
  - compress\_type: compression algorithm
    - ZIP\_STORE: only packing without compression (default)
    - ZIP\_DEFLATED: compressed.

_```python
import zipfile

newzip = zipfile.ZipFile("new.zip", "w")
newzip.write("new.txt", compress_type=zipfile.ZIP_DEFLATED)
newzip.close()
```.